CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to the Apache Cassandra GoCQL Driver

**TL;DR** - this manifesto sets out the bare minimum requirements for submitting a patch to gocql.

This guide outlines the process of landing patches in gocql and the general approach to maintaining the code base.

## Background

The goal of the gocql project is to provide a stable and robust CQL driver for Go. gocql is a community driven project that is coordinated by a small team of core developers.

## Minimum Requirement Checklist

The following is a check list of requirements that need to be satisfied in order for us to merge your patch:

* You should raise a pull request to gocql/gocql on Github
* The pull request has a title that clearly summarizes the purpose of the patch
* The motivation behind the patch is clearly defined in the pull request summary
* Your name and email have been added to the `AUTHORS` file (for copyright purposes)
* The patch will merge cleanly
* The test coverage does not fall below the critical threshold (currently 64%) 
* The merge commit passes the regression test suite on Travis
* `go fmt` has been applied to the submitted code
* Notable changes (i.e. new features or changed behavior, bugfixes) are appropriately documented in CHANGELOG.md, functional changes also in godoc

If there are any requirements that can't be reasonably satisfied, please state this either on the pull request or as part of discussion on the mailing list. Where appropriate, the core team may apply discretion and make an exception to these requirements.

## Beyond The Checklist

In addition to stating the hard requirements, there are a bunch of things that we consider when assessing changes to the library. These soft requirements are helpful pointers of how to get a patch landed quicker and with less fuss.

### General QA Approach

The Cassandra project needs to consider the ongoing maintainability of the library at all times. Patches that look like they will introduce maintenance issues for the team will not be accepted.

Your patch will get merged quicker if you have decent test cases that provide test coverage for the new behavior you wish to introduce.

Unit tests are good, integration tests are even better. An example of a unit test is `marshal_test.go` - this tests the serialization code in isolation. `cassandra_test.go` is an integration test suite that is executed against every version of Cassandra that gocql supports as part of the CI process on Travis.

That said, the point of writing tests is to provide a safety net to catch regressions, so there is no need to go overboard with tests. Remember that the more tests you write, the more code we will have to maintain. So there's a balance to strike there.

### Sign Off Procedure

Generally speaking, a pull request can get merged by any one of the project's committers. If your change is minor, chances are that one team member will just go ahead and merge it there and then. As stated earlier, suitable test coverage will increase the likelihood that a single reviewer will assess and merge your change. If your change has no test coverage, or looks like it may have wider implications for the health and stability of the library, the reviewer may elect to refer the change to another team member to achieve consensus before proceeding. Therefore, the tighter and cleaner your patch is, the quicker it will go through the review process.

### Supported Features

gocql is a low level wire driver for Cassandra CQL. By and large, we would like to keep the functional scope of the library as narrow as possible. We think that gocql should be tight and focused, and we will be naturally skeptical of things that could just as easily be implemented in a higher layer. Inevitably you will come across something that could be implemented in a higher layer, save for a minor change to the core API. In this instance, please strike up a conversation in the Cassandra community. Chances are we will understand what you are trying to achieve and will try to accommodate this in a maintainable way.

## Officially Supported Server Versions

Currently, the officially supported versions of the Cassandra server include:

* 1.2.18
* 2.0.9

Chances are that gocql will work with many other versions. If you would like us to support a particular version of Cassandra, please start a conversation about what version you'd like us to consider. We are more likely to accept a new version if you help out by extending the regression suite to cover the new version to be supported.

Commit message:

doc: run all tests locally

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to the Apache Cassandra GoCQL Driver

**TL;DR** - this manifesto sets out the bare minimum requirements for submitting a patch to gocql.

This guide outlines the process of landing patches in gocql and the general approach to maintaining the code base.

## Background

The goal of the gocql project is to provide a stable and robust CQL driver for Go. gocql is a community driven project that is coordinated by a small team of core developers.

## Minimum Requirement Checklist

The following is a check list of requirements that need to be satisfied in order for us to merge your patch:

* You should raise a pull request to gocql/gocql on Github
* The pull request has a title that clearly summarizes the purpose of the patch
* The motivation behind the patch is clearly defined in the pull request summary
* Your name and email have been added to the `AUTHORS` file (for copyright purposes)
* The patch will merge cleanly
* The test coverage does not fall below the critical threshold (currently 64%) 
* The merge commit passes the regression test suite on Travis
* `go fmt` has been applied to the submitted code
* Notable changes (i.e. new features or changed behavior, bugfixes) are appropriately documented in CHANGELOG.md, functional changes also in godoc
* Before a Pull Request or a new commit, ensure that all tests pass successfully. You can run all tests locally using the following command (this process takes approximately 10 minutes):
```
go test -v -tags "integration cassandra tc gocql_debug" -timeout=15m -race -gocql.timeout=60s -runssl -proto=4 -rf=3 -clusterSize=3 -autowait=2000ms -compressor=snappy -gocql.cversion=4.0.8 ./...  
```
and
```
go test -v -run=TestAuthentication -tags ""integration" gocql_debug" -timeout=15s -runauth -gocql.timeout=60s -runssl -proto=4 -rf=3 -clusterSize=1 -autowait=2000ms -runauth -compressor=snappy -gocql.cversion=4.0.8
```
### ℹ️ **Note:**

> The main_test.go file serves as the entry point for integration tests. It sets up an actual Cassandra cluster, sharing resources before tests are run and cleaning them up afterward, ensuring a consistent and efficient testing environment. The cluster is created locally, so you will need Docker installed.
>
>
> The setup supports both single-node (quick setup in seconds) and multi-node Cassandra clusters (approx. 5 minutes, configurable via the `-clusterSize` flag). If you're curious to try integration tests, feel free to run them yourself. Just ensure that your tests are tagged correctly (e.g., `integration`), since `main_test.go` skips unit tests for performance reasons (no need to start a cluster for unit tests)
>
> You can find examples of running integration tests in the "Before a Pull Request" section.
>

If there are any requirements that can't be reasonably satisfied, please state this either on the pull request or as part of discussion on the mailing list. Where appropriate, the core team may apply discretion and make an exception to these requirements.

## Beyond The Checklist

In addition to stating the hard requirements, there are a bunch of things that we consider when assessing changes to the library. These soft requirements are helpful pointers of how to get a patch landed quicker and with less fuss.

### General QA Approach

The Cassandra project needs to consider the ongoing maintainability of the library at all times. Patches that look like they will introduce maintenance issues for the team will not be accepted.

Your patch will get merged quicker if you have decent test cases that provide test coverage for the new behavior you wish to introduce.

Unit tests are good, integration tests are even better. An example of a unit test is `marshal_test.go` - this tests the serialization code in isolation. `cassandra_test.go` is an integration test suite that is executed against every version of Cassandra that gocql supports as part of the CI process on Travis.

That said, the point of writing tests is to provide a safety net to catch regressions, so there is no need to go overboard with tests. Remember that the more tests you write, the more code we will have to maintain. So there's a balance to strike there.

### Sign Off Procedure

Generally speaking, a pull request can get merged by any one of the project's committers. If your change is minor, chances are that one team member will just go ahead and merge it there and then. As stated earlier, suitable test coverage will increase the likelihood that a single reviewer will assess and merge your change. If your change has no test coverage, or looks like it may have wider implications for the health and stability of the library, the reviewer may elect to refer the change to another team member to achieve consensus before proceeding. Therefore, the tighter and cleaner your patch is, the quicker it will go through the review process.

### Supported Features

gocql is a low level wire driver for Cassandra CQL. By and large, we would like to keep the functional scope of the library as narrow as possible. We think that gocql should be tight and focused, and we will be naturally skeptical of things that could just as easily be implemented in a higher layer. Inevitably you will come across something that could be implemented in a higher layer, save for a minor change to the core API. In this instance, please strike up a conversation in the Cassandra community. Chances are we will understand what you are trying to achieve and will try to accommodate this in a maintainable way.

## Officially Supported Server Versions

Currently, the officially supported versions of the Cassandra server include:

* 1.2.18
* 2.0.9

Chances are that gocql will work with many other versions. If you would like us to support a particular version of Cassandra, please start a conversation about what version you'd like us to consider. We are more likely to accept a new version if you help out by extending the regression suite to cover the new version to be supported.
